This paper is included in the Proceedings of the 20th USENIX  
Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation.
July 13–15, 2026 • Seattle, WA, USA
ISBN 978-1-939133-55-7
Open access to the Proceedings of the 20th USENIX Symposium on 
Operating Systems Design and Implementation is sponsored by
Prism: Cost-Efficient Multi-LLM Serving via GPU 
Memory Ballooning
Shan Yu, University of California, Los Angeles; Yifan Qiao, University of California, 
Berkeley; Mingyuan Ma, Harvard University; Yangmin Li, Carnegie Mellon University; 
Shuo Yang, University of California, Berkeley; Xinyuan Tong, University of Edinburgh; 
Yang Wang, Intel; Zhiqiang Xie, Stanford University; Yuwei An, Carnegie Mellon 
University; Shiyi Cao, University of California, Berkeley; Ke Bao, LMSYS; Deepak Vij, 
Xiaoning Ding, and Yichen Wang, ByteDance; Qingda Lu, Alibaba Cloud;  
Zhong Wang, Tsinghua University; Gao Gao, Novita AI; Harry Xu and Junyi Shu, 
University of California, Los Angeles; Jiarong Xing, Rice University;  
Ying Sheng, University of California, Los Angeles
https://www.usenix.org/conference/osdi26/presentation/yu-shan
Prism: Cost-Efficient Multi-LLM Serving via GPU Memory Ballooning
Shan Yu1, Yifan Qiao 2, Mingyuan Ma 3, Yangmin Li 4, Shuo Yang 2, Xinyuan Tong 5, Yang Wang 6,
Zhiqiang Xie7, Yuwei An 4, Shiyi Cao 2, Ke Bao 8, Deepak Vij 9, Xiaoning Ding 9, Yichen Wang 9,
Qingda Lu10, Zhong Wang 11, Gao Gao 12, Harry Xu 1*, Junyi Shu 1*, Jiarong Xing 13*, Ying Sheng 1*
1UCLA 2UC Berkeley 3Harvard University 4CMU 5University of Edinburgh 6Intel 7Stanford University
8LMSYS 9ByteDance 10Alibaba Cloud 11Tsinghua University 12Novita AI 13Rice University
Abstract
Inference providers must maintain availability for many
LLMs, including low-volume but essential models, making
resource efficiency increasingly important as token prices fall.
Analysis of production traces reveals a dynamic bursty-group
pattern in which sets of models become active together and
shift over time; existing space- and time-sharing approaches
lack principled mechanisms to adapt to this variability, forc-
ing trade-offs between SLO adherence and efficiency. We
observe that elastic memory allocation can unify spatial and
temporal sharing. Based on this insight, we have developed
Prism, a memory-centric LLM co-serving framework that
applies memory ballooning to reclaim memory across mod-
els and support both forms of sharing under a single scheme.
Prism’s balloon driver, referred to askvcached, has been open-
sourced at https://github.com/ovg-project/kvcached,
and deployed in production environments across 10K+ GPUs.
1 Introduction
Serving LLMs is costly for providers such as Hugging Face
and Alibaba Cloud, which must host thousands of base and
fine-tuned models, many with low request volumes yet manda-
tory availability [43,53, 54]. As token prices fall and models
vary widely in size and workload patterns, reducing inference
cost while preserving performance has become a central ob-
jective. The core challenge, however, is not hardware expense
but chronic under-utilization: to satisfy strict SLOs, industry
practice often dedicates amodel-parallel GPU group(i.e., one
or more GPUs jointly serving a single model instance), guar-
anteeing immediate responsiveness but wasting substantial
capacity. This strategy is particularly inefficient for models
with bursty or sparse traffic, and production analyses show
that GPU duty cycles commonly fall below 30% [53,54].
To improve utilization, prior work has explored various
GPU sharing mechanisms at different granularities. Because
* Corresponding authors.
auto-regressive LLM inference is intrinsically memory-bound,
tail latency is governed primarily by memory stalls (e.g., page
faults, PCIe migrations). Moreover, compute sharing is al-
ready well studied—both via hardware mechanisms such as
NVIDIA MIG [29] and vGPU [30], and via software solu-
tions [10, 12, 13, 27, 42, 62]. In contrast, effective memory
sharing remains comparatively underexplored. We therefore
center this work on advancing effective GPU memory sharing.
The work of memory sharing for LLM serving falls into
two categories: space sharing and time sharing. Space sharing
(e.g., MuxServe [11]) colocates multiple models on the same
GPU to utilize unused memory and compute cycles, which is
effective for smaller, low-traffic models that are continuously
accessed. Time sharing (e.g., QLM [33] and Aegaeon [53])
swaps models in and out of GPU memory, which is ideal for
handling sporadic requests to models as the resources can be
freed up when models are idle. While these strategies are
effective for specific cases, our analysis of a broad range of
production serving traces demonstrates that they fail to adapt
to more complex and realistic usage scenarios.
In particular, we have conducted a comprehensive analysis
of production traces drawn from major inference providers
(i.e., Hyperbolic and Novita AI) as well as independent evalu-
ation platforms (i.e., Chatbot Arena). These traces encompass
11 days to 16 months of traffic across 58 heterogeneous mod-
els. Our results indicate that real-world workloads display
diverse, rapidly changing patterns that elude any single, fixed
sharing mechanism.
Key observations. At the model level, deployed models
show a bursty-group behavior: when a burst occurs, requests
concentrate on a particular subset of models, and that subset
shifts over time, similar to an application’s dynamically chang-
ing working set. This pattern is driven by modern compound
AI systems and agentic pipelines, which depend on a central
reasoning LLM together with a number of fine-tuned or LoRA
models for specialized agent tasks. At the request level, de-
tailed inspection of the traces confirms that requests are ex-
tremely dynamic and volatile and fluctuate rapidly and un-
predictably, limiting the value of existing GPU-sharing tech-
USENIX Association 20th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation    75
niques. Space sharing, alone, fails to adapt to longer idle
periods; for instance, in the Novita AI trace, where models
are idle for over 70% of the time, space sharing creates signif-
icant memory fragmentation, leaving 50% of GPU memory
occupied but unused. In contrast, time sharing, alone, strug-
gles with rapid workload fluctuations. The significant latency
overhead of swapping (e.g., several seconds) causes severe
thrashing during traffic bursts, resulting in a spike of requests
violating their latency SLOs due to queuing delays.
Maximizing resource utilization while preserving SLO at-
tainment requires integrating both strategies: space sharing
for colocating low-traffic models and time sharing for burst
handling and idle-resource reclamation. However, mingling
these approaches is far from trivial due to the fundamen-
tally different challenges they must address—the flexibility
of memory balancing for space sharing vs. the efficiency
of model swapping for time sharing. One could attempt to
switch spatial and temporal sharing strategies dynamically;
yet, co-locating models with conflicting sharing needs creates
resource contention. Specifically, a model requiring time-
sharing typically relies on preempting resources to maximize
burst performance, which directly contradicts the persistent
resource availability required by a model colocated through
space-sharing. Without a mechanism to fluidly mediate these
conflicting operational modes, the system is forced into rigid
configurations that cannot adapt to dynamic load changes.
Insight: a memory-centric view to unify space- and time-
sharing. Our central observation is that GPU memory is
the unifying bottleneck, and each sharing strategy is con-
cerned with a different portion of that memory: time-sharing
focuses on efficiently swapping in LLM weights, whereas
space-sharing determines how to scale KV-cache capacity
among concurrently served models. This perspective paral-
lels memory ballooning in virtualization, where a hypervisor
dynamically reclaims memory from guest VMs and reallo-
cates it where needed. In the context of LLM co-serving, an
analogous “balloon driver” can reclaim memory from idle
models to swap in the weights of new models (supporting
time-sharing) or from models with low request rates by shrink-
ing their KV-cache reservations (supporting space-sharing).
Treating GPU memory as an elastic resource allows the sys-
tem to fluidly shift between sharing modes and even enable
both simultaneously (i.e., apply time-sharing to only a sub-
set of colocated models), ensuring active models obtain the
memory required to satisfy their SLOs while maximizing
cluster-level efficiency.
Prism. We developed Prism, a new memory-centric GPU
sharing system for multi-LLM serving. At its core, Prism
implements the concept of memory ballooning for LLMs
to enable demand-aware, cross-model memory sharing, a
capability missing in existing systems but critical for unifying
spatial and temporal strategies. Prism ensures that models
can promptly expand their memory footprint to meet latency
SLOs, while unused memory is efficiently harvested from
others to maximize overall cluster utilization. The design of
Prism addresses two key challenges.
Challenge 1: How to enable flexible memory ballooning
for LLMs? Today’s LLM serving engines ( e.g., SGLang
and vLLM) are designed for single-model serving and adopt
per-model static memory allocation. While techniques like
PagedAttention manage memory efficiently within a model,
they operate at the application level and cannot harvest mem-
ory across model boundaries.
Flexible memory ballooning requires a mechanism to dy-
namically resize the physical memory footprint of a model
at runtime without disrupting its execution. Prism tackles
this through a model balloon driver for serving engines (§5).
The model balloon driver decouples virtual and physical GPU
memory: serving engines reserve a large virtual address space
during initialization, but physical memory is allocated and
mapped only on demand. This design enables transparent,
fine-grained memory redistribution at a 2 MB granularity with
millisecond-level overhead, supporting diverse model archi-
tectures with zero code change to attention kernels.
Challenge 2: How to place models and schedule requests
to maximize SLO attainment? While the balloon driver
provides the mechanism for elasticity, maximizing SLO at-
tainment requires intelligent policies to decide when and
where memory should be allocated. Without proper coor-
dination, contention for shared memory can lead to thrashing
and performance degradation. Prism solves this through de-
coupled model placement and request scheduling. First, the
fast-changing bursty groups (§3.1) require a placement al-
gorithm that can quickly decide where each model should
run. Prism tackles this with a global demand-complementary
placement algorithm that minimizes the KV pressure ratio
(KVPR), balancing model memory demand with GPU capac-
ity (§6.1). Second, volatile request arrivals and diverse SLO
targets require estimating each request’s time slack so the
memory manager can steer memory toward latency-sensitive
tasks. Prism achieves this via a local slack-aware arbitra-
tion algorithm, which leverages a GPU-level request queue to
prioritize requests based on their slack (§6.2).
Results. We implemented Prism on top of SGLang [64],
a widely used LLM serving engine. We evaluated Prism
comprehensively with two production traces, and with 58
representative LLMs of varying architectures and sizes,
on GPU clusters with up to 32 H100 GPUs. Our results
show that Prism achieves up to 3.3 × higher time-to-first-
token (TTFT) SLO attainment and2× higher time-per-output-
token (TPOT) SLO attainment given the same number of
GPUs. When targeting the same level of SLO attainment,
Prism achieves up to over 2× cost reduction or 3.5× more
requests compared to the state-of-the-art.
Prism’s balloon driver, referred to as kvcached, has
been open-sourced and actively maintained at https://
github.com/ovg-project/kvcached . kvcached has been
adopted by many industry users to support production work-
76    20th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation USENIX Association
Trace name Service provider # models Time span
Hyperbolic Hyperbolic [19] 24 4 months
Novita Novita AI [3] 16 1 month
Arena-Battle Chatbot Arena [9] 129 16 months
Arena-Chat Chatbot Arena [9] 84 11 days
Table 1: Production trace summary.
loads in clusters of more than 10K GPUs. We report usage
analyses from two companies at the end of §7.
2 Background
SLOs of Online LLM Serving. In online LLM serving, un-
like offline batch processing, the system must interact with
users or downstream applications in real-time. Consequently,
providers enforce strict SLOs to guarantee the quality of ex-
perience. Two key latency metrics define these objectives.
First, Time-To-First-Token(TTFT) measures the latency to
process the input prompt and generate the first token, which is
a crucial metric for interactive applications, such as chatbots.
Second, Time-Per-Output-Token(TPOT) measures the aver-
age inter-token latency during the autoregressive generation,
which is essential to ensure that text generation is fluid and
matches human reading speeds.
Memory footprint of LLM serving. LLM inference is in-
herently memory-bound, with GPU memory dominated by
model weights and KV cache.
Model weights. LLM weights are massive; for example, a
70B-parameter model requires roughly 140 GB of GPU mem-
ory in FP16. Under long-tail workloads [53], idle models
waste GPU memory; prior work [13,53] mitigates this with
model eviction and accelerated weight loading.
KV cache and PagedAttention. The KV cache stores inter-
mediate Key (K) and Value (V) tensors for attention layers to
avoid redundant computation. Unlike weights, the KV cache
is dynamic, growing with sequence length and batch size.
To improve GPU memory efficiency, mainstream LLM
serving systems adopt PagedAttention [21], which splits each
request’s KV cache into fixed-size blocks that can be stored
non-contiguously and reused across requests. Frameworks
such as SGLang [64] and vLLM [21] implement this design
by reserving large PyTorch tensors as a KV block pool and
mapping each request’s logical blocks to physical offsets in
the pool. For each of the L attention layers, a K tensor and a
V tensor of shape (B,T,H,D) are allocated, where B is the
number of blocks, T is the tokens per block, H is the number
of attention heads, and D is the head dimension. The values
of L, H, and D vary across model architectures (e.g., Llama-
3-8B (32,8,128) vs. GPT-OSS-120B (36,8,64)), resulting in
different KV block sizes.
3 Production Trace Analysis
Prior studies have primarily profiled single-model LLM ser-
vices [48, 50], but the cross-model dynamics that arise in
(a)
(b)
(c)
Active
Idle
Per-model
Norm. rate
Figure 1: Combined view of model-request dynamics; the x-axes
denote time. (a) Variation of concurrently active model groups over
a six-hour window (8am–4pm): the y-axis lists all models from the
Novita trace; each cell represents a three-minute interval, with dark/-
light shading indicating whether the model is active. (b) Zoomed-in
view of volatile request patterns from 11am–1pm, showing per-
model normalized request rates, where darker colors indicate higher
rates. (c) A further zoom-in over a 5-minute window from (b), com-
paring two models on a shared normalization.
multi-LLM serving remain largely under-examined. As a re-
sult, evaluations in recent multi-LLM serving work often rely
on synthetic or simplified workloads, such as Poisson/Gamma
arrivals [11,33,53], temporally rescaled traces from non-LLM
domains [13, 14], or dataset-driven replays [39].
To address these gaps, we conduct a detailed characteriza-
tion of production workloads from major inference providers
(i.e., Hyperbolic and Novita AI) as well as independent eval-
uation platforms (i.e., Chatbot Arena), explicitly capturing
the fine-grained, time-varying dynamics of multi-LLM traffic.
The four traces span 24–129 deployed models over weeks to
months of traffic, summarized in Table 1. In this section, we
utilize the traces from Novita AI as a representati4ve example
to illustrate our observations and report cross-trace statistics.
We include a detailed CDF analysis in Appendix A.1.
3.1 Model Level: Shifting Bursty Groups
We begin by examining the dynamics of concurrently active
models (i.e., those processing at least one request) from the
Hermes-SB 
Ow0-328 
Lunaris-8B 
Stheno-8B 
Euryale-70B 
Qwen2-7B 
Uama-3.1-8B 
OS-Rl-0·32B 
Oolphin-72B 
OS-Rl·L-8B 
DS·Rl·0·14B 
Uama-3.2-1B 
Uama-3.3- 70B 
Uama-3-706 
Mistral-Nemo 
MR-70B 
1.0 
80 160 
Time (s) 
Llama-3-88 
Qwen2.5-78 
240 
USENIX Association 20th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation    77
Novita trace over a six-hour span in Figure 1(a), where a
horizontal slice of a model represents its active/idle activities
over time, and a vertical slice at a point of time reveals which
subset of the models is active at the point. Our analysis reveals
two properties that are common for production workloads:
bursty groups and heterogeneous access patterns.
Vertical behavior: bursty groups. Vertically, deployed mod-
els demonstrate a bursty-group behavior: models receive re-
quests in short, irregular bursts separated by long and variable
idle intervals. Because these bursts occur asynchronously
across models, only a small subset is active at any moment,
and this subset changes rapidly over time. We refer to this
transient set as the bursty group, analogous to how an appli-
cation’s working set changes during its execution—there are
common models that appear in almost every group but most
models experience sporadic requests and hence appear only
in a small number of groups. Across the four traces, 23%–
50% of models are active concurrently on average, and the
active set changes 54–766 times per hour. Although the total
number of deployed LLMs can be large, only the bursty group
drives actual demand. Efficient GPU utilization thus requires
adapting resources to this shifting model group, rather than
allocating resources statically to all models.
Horizontal behavior: Heterogeneous activation pat-
terns. Horizontally, the workload exhibits significant
heterogeneity across models in activation patterns.
Some models, such as Llama-3.3-70B, sustain long
stretches of continuous activity, while others (like
Distilled-Deepseek-R1-Qwen-14B(DS-R1-Q-14B))
activate only in sparse, short-lived instances with only a
small group of applications/users using it. This heterogeneity
is largely driven by the diverse roles that models play in
modern compound AI systems and agentic pipelines. Large
general-purpose models ( e.g., Llama-3.3-70B) often act
as central reasoning or planning components and remain
active throughout user interactions, leading to sustained
request streams. In contrast, smaller distilled models
(e.g., DS-R1-Q-14B) are typically invoked as auxiliary
components—such as for tool use or verification—and
are triggered only at specific pipeline stages, resulting in
intermittent, bursty activations.
Aggregating requests across many applications and users
yields a mixed access pattern in which some models remain
persistently active, others appear only sporadically, and even
the same model may exhibit different behaviors over time.
These differences have direct implications for resource man-
agement: long-running models benefit from sustained coloca-
tion, whereas short and scattered bursts favor opportunistic
execution. Consequently, multi-LLM serving systems must
adapt to the heterogeneous activation behavior of each model,
rather than assuming uniform access patterns.
Implication: Inefficiency of static partitioning. The exis-
tence of shifting bursty groups fundamentally challenges any
static strategies. Since only a small, changing subset of mod-
els drives demand at any given moment, statically partitioning
GPU memory across all models (to ensure availability) results
in severe resource fragmentation. In the Novita AI trace, for
example, models are idle for over 70% of the time on aver-
age. Under a static memory-partitioning regime, the memory
reserved for these idle models is wasted, preventing active
models in the current bursty group from utilizing that capacity
to scale up and meet their SLOs.
3.2 Request Level: Dynamic and Volatile
We next zoom in to a shorter period of time to examine the
fine-grained dynamics of individual models. Figure 1(b) de-
picts the request rates for the models over a two-hour window,
normalized within each model so that low-volume bursts re-
main visible alongside high-volume ones.
Extreme volatility and pattern shifts. As shown in Fig-
ure 1(b), request streams shift patterns frequently. Even
models that appear continuously active in coarser views ac-
tually exhibit rapid oscillations between low-demand peri-
ods and short, intense bursts ( e.g., Qwen2-7B). Similarly,
models that are only sporadically invoked display burst sizes
and inter-arrival times that vary significantly over time (e.g.,
Llama-3.1-8B).
Abrupt pattern transitions. Furthermore, these workload
patterns often undergo rapid, unforeseen transitions. Fig-
ure 1(c) provides a granular, 5-minute zoom-in view of re-
quest arrivals for two representative models. This window
reveals a stark shift in interaction dynamics: a phase of mod-
erate, interleaved activity—where both models contend for
resources simultaneously—abruptly gives way to a concen-
trated burst from a single model. Such sudden pattern shifts
occur without discernible triggers, implying that the system
cannot rely on historical stability or long-term pattern recog-
nition; instead, it must possess the agility to react to instan-
taneous changes. Such transitions are pervasive: across our
traces, many models exhibit a request rate coefficient of vari-
ation above 1 and 40–100 idle intervals per hour.
Implication: Instability of pure time sharing. The extreme
volatility and rapid pattern transitions undermine pure time-
sharing strategies. As seen in Figure 1(c), request streams
frequently transition into phases of interleaved activity where
multiple models are active simultaneously. In these scenarios,
a time-sharing system relying on swapping must constantly
evict and reload weights to serve alternating requests. This
leads to model thrashing, where the latency overhead of load-
ing weights dominates execution time, causing immediate
SLO violations. This volatility necessitates the stability of
space sharing, where working sets remain resident to handle
interleaved demand without swapping penalties.
3.3 Applying Existing Approaches
To understand the implications of these abrupt pattern tran-
sitions, we ran two representative state-of-the-art strategies,
78    20th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation USENIX Association
0
5
10
15
Throughput
(k tok/s)
Llama-3.1-8B Qwen2-7B
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00Memory (%) Weights KV cache
0 80 160 240 320
Time (s)
0
20
40
60
# of SLO
Violations
(a) Pure time sharing.
0
5
10
15
Throughput
(k tok/s)
Llama-3.1-8B Qwen2-7B
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00Memory (%) Weights KV cache
0 80 160 240 320
Time (s)
0
25
50
75
# of SLO
Violations (b) Pure space sharing.
Figure 2: Performance of pure time- (a) and space-sharing (b) for the
trace in Figure 1(c). Pure time sharing in (a) causes model switching
when both models have requests, while pure space sharing in (b)
causes queuing delay during requests spike.
time sharing (QLM [33]) and space sharing (static parti-
tion [1, 29]), on the trace segment shown in Figure 1(c). Fig-
ure 2 illustrates the resulting memory usage and cumulative
SLO violations for each approach.
Failure of time sharing. Time sharing manages resources by
swapping models in and out of GPU memory. This approach
struggles during the initial phase of interleaved activity. As
both models receive frequent, overlapping requests, the sys-
tem is forced to repeatedly evict and reload weights to serve
alternating inputs. As shown in Figure 2a, this leads to se-
vere model thrashing: the GPU spends more time on PCIe
transfers and engine re-initialization than on computation. As
such, request queues grow rapidly, resulting in a spike of SLO
violations even before the workload intensity peaks.
Failure of space sharing. Space sharing avoids swapping
by partitioning GPU memory between models. While this
provides stability during the interleaved phase, it fails catas-
trophically when the workload transitions to the burst phase,
as shown in Figure 2b. Although one model becomes idle,
its model weights remain locked, preventing the active model
which is now experiencing a demand surge from utilizing
the full GPU capacity. This rigid isolation creates artificial
resource scarcity: the active model is starved of KV cache
memory while adjacent memory sits idle. The result is a
throughput cap that causes significant queuing delays and
SLO violations during the burst.
3.4 Takeaway: A Hybrid Approach
Our analysis demonstrates that production multi-LLM work-
loads exhibit conflicting requirements that no single existing
strategy can satisfy:
• Bursty groups benefit from time-sharing capabilities:
At the model level, the active set shifts over time. Pure
space sharing fails here because it rigidly locks memory for
idle models, causing fragmentation and preventing active
models from scaling. The system must be able to evict idle
resources to maximize utilization.
• Volatile requests benefit from space-sharing capabilities:
At the request level, demand fluctuates rapidly and often
interleaves across models. Pure time sharing fails here
because swapping causes severe thrashing during these
volatile periods. The system must be able to keep active
models colocated in memory to provide low-latency access.
Motivation for Prism. These two patterns capture the work-
load at coarse- and fine-grained levels, respectively. Because
they reflect different facets of the same underlying behavior,
they cannot be addressed in isolation, necessitating a hybrid
approach: the system must fluidly shift between the strategies
at runtime. It needs the elasticity to act like a time-sharing
system when reclaiming memory from the idle models, while
simultaneously acting like a space-sharing system to co-serve
the models in an active bursty group without causing SLO
violations. This calls for a design that manages GPU memory
as a dynamic, shared resource rather than static partitions.
4 Overview
Prism is a memory-efficient GPU sharing system for cost-
effective multi-LLM serving. Figure 3 shows its system ar-
chitecture and design overview. Prism receives inference
requests at its frontend, which routes them to the correspond-
ing LLMs for processing. To improve cost efficiency, Prism
serves LLMs with flexible combinations of space and time
sharing. For instance, high-rate models may occupy GPUs
exclusively, while multiple low-rate models can be colocated
on a single GPU or a model-parallel GPU group. In Prism, a
GPU group represents the strict scheduling boundary—a set
of GPUs tightly coupled to jointly serve one model instance.
Prism’s global scheduler treats each of these groups as a dis-
tinct, indivisible resource unit. Idle models are temporarily
evicted to CPU DRAM and reactivated when new requests
arrive. Prism continuously adjusts its sharing strategies based
on runtime workload to maximize overall SLO attainment.
Prism achieves this with two key designs for flexible,
demand-aware cross-model memory sharing and coordination.
First, it introduces a balloon driver, referred to as kvcached
(§5) that enables flexible and efficient memory sharing be-
tween models, forming the foundation for rapid adaptation
to workload variations and policy changes. Second, Prism
optimizes the overall resource allocation through a memory-
centric control plane that uses a combination of (1) load-aware
model placement (§6.1) that maximizes memory headroom
for GPUs to facilitate ballooning and (2) slack-aware request
arbitration that prioritizes requests on each GPU for maximiz-
ing SLO attainment (§6.2).
Relation with autoscaling. Prism is orthogonal to and can be
seamlessly integrated with autoscaling [4,23,40,59]. Prism fo-
cuses on efficiently sharing GPUs between models (replicas)
USENIX Association 20th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation    79
§6.1 Load-
Aware 
Model 
Placement
LLM 
applications
§5 GPU Memory Ballooning
§6.3 Slack-Aware 
Request Arbitration
GPUgroup0
Requests
Frontend
Model2Model1
GPUgroupn
Model2Model1Model3
SpaceShareTimeShare
Figure 3: The system architecture and design overview of Prism.
while autoscaling automatically scales up/down the number
of model replicas.
5 GPU Memory Ballooning for Multi-LLMs
This section describes how Prism enables flexible cross-model
memory sharing with our balloon driver, providing a founda-
tion for adapting policies to dynamic workloads.
5.1 Requirements and Challenges
Mainstream LLM serving engines [21, 64] adopt block-based
KV token management ( e.g., PagedAttention [21]). While
this design effectively reduces request-level memory frag-
mentation within a single LLM, it requires the application
(serving engine) to manage the GPU physical memory di-
rectly, by pre-allocating a large portion of GPU memory as
the KV block pool. This memory thus remains occupied even
when there is no active request, and the KV blocks within the
tensor are unused. This prevents the redistribution of unused
memory across different LLMs, limiting the ability to support
flexible time- and space-sharing among multiple LLMs. This
leads to four key requirements for Prism.
R1: Fast memory reallocation between model weights
and KV cache. When a model is swapped out, the mem-
ory released by its weights should be quickly repurposed
by other models as KV cache. Similarly, when an idle
model is reactivated upon new requests, the running mod-
els must promptly release unused KV cache memory for the
new model’s weights and KV cache. However, this is hard
with statically reserved KV pool tensors, whose physical GPU
memory cannot be partially released. A workaround is to copy
active token blocks into a smaller tensor and then destroy the
old one. However, this not only requires waiting for the slow
copy to complete, but also demands enough GPU memory to
hold both tensors during the transient period.
R2: KV cache sharing across diverse model architec-
tures. For models colocated on a GPU, their KV cache
memory should be flexibly shared; e.g., unused KV cache
memory from one LLM can be easily reused by others. How-
ever, LLMs often have diverse KV cache layouts, resulting
in different tensor shapes, e.g., different head dimensions and
number of attention heads. Therefore, simply using a pool
PagedAttention
kvcached
Physical 
memory
Virtual 
memory Memory 
pages
kvcached
Per-modelGPUvirtualmemoryreservation
LLMServingFrameworks
KVPool
(eTensor)
(Evicted)
KVpooltensors
Model2
PagedAttention
Model1
…
Params
Num
layers
KVpooltensors
Params KVpooltensors
Params
Model3
PagedAttention
Params
(eTensor)
Figure 4: Memory ballooning for effective multi-LLM serving.
of unified KV tensors across models is infeasible: different
token sizes lead to misaligned tensor shapes, and different
layer counts cause inconsistent numbers of tensors.
R3: Minimal redistribution overhead and memory frag-
mentation. Since memory redistribution may occur fre-
quently, it must incur low overhead while minimizing frag-
mentation to improve utilization. This rules out a strawman
design that splits the reserved KV pool tensor into multiple
smaller segments so that free segments from one model can
be reused by another. This is because choosing the segment
size is inherently challenging: too many small segments in-
crease second-level indexing overhead, while too few large
segments cause severe fragmentation.
R4: Transparent to existing serving frameworks. The
new mechanism should remain fully compatible with existing
serving frameworks, where the KV block pool is allocated
as large tensors, and require no changes to attention kernels.
The previously mentioned segment-based method violates
this requirement, as it splits the tensor into segments, which
necessitates extensive kernel modifications.
Summary. Multi-LLM serving must efficiently cope with het-
erogeneous memory demands (e.g., different model weights
and KV token blocks), each with distinct semantics ( e.g.,
head dimensions and layer counts) and lifecycles. Existing
single-LLM systems manage GPU memory entirely at the
application level, imposing their own semantics on top of a
fixed GPU allocation. This approach works well for a single
model, which can efficiently manage its memory in isolation.
In multi-LLM settings, however, such isolation becomes a
barrier, as memory needs to be shared and reallocated across
models dynamically to accommodate bursty group behavior
and workload volatility.
5.2 Solution: GPU Memory Ballooning
To meet all the above requirements, our key insight is that
memory management should be pushed down to the GPU
runtime level. At this level, the system can treat all models
uniformly, allowing GPU memory to be transparently redis-
tributed across models, while applications manage only the
memory allocated to them with their own semantics.
80    20th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation USENIX Association
Building on this idea, Prism introduces a balloon driver,
named kvcached, which sits as a shim between inference
engines and GPU memory. Open sourced at https://
github.com/ovg-project/kvcached , kvcached manages
the entire GPU physical memory for LLM serving, includ-
ing both model weights and the KV cache pool. Meanwhile,
kvcached reserves a large contiguous virtual address space for
each engine, which presents it to the engine as if it were
dedicated GPU memory. On top of this reserved space,
kvcached translates application-level semantics (e.g., weights,
KV caches, and intermediate buffers) into allocations of phys-
ical GPU memory pages. Physical pages are created only
on demand and mapped to virtual addresses lazily, allow-
ing memory to expand and shrink as workloads change, as
illustrated in Figure 4.
Specifically, kvcached meets all the requirements in §5.1
through the following designs.
D1: Unified model weights and KV cache manage-
ment. kvcached achieves fast memory redistribution between
model weights and KV cache through unified virtual and phys-
ical memory management. Since kvcached-managed memory
is agnostic to application semantics, both weights and KV
cache can be seamlessly reallocated across engines. More-
over, kvcached dynamically adjusts physical memory limits:
when an evicted model is reactivated, it shrinks the limits
of other models on the same GPU, bounding their alloca-
tions and immediately freeing space for the new model. The
opposite happens when a model is evicted.
D2: Automatic token block mapping. To support models
with different layer counts and token sizes,kvcached employs
an internal KV cache manager to map token blocks onto un-
derlying virtual and physical GPU pages. Prism assigns token
blocks to available slots within a virtual page, or allocates a
new physical page when necessary. To prevent size conflicts
and ensure portability across architectures, the KV cache man-
ager further segregates token blocks from different models
onto distinct memory pages.
D3: Overhead and fragmentation optimizations. kvcached
minimizes memory redistribution overhead and fragmentation
through three key optimizations. First, mainstream serving
frameworks maintain separate K and V tensors per layer, re-
quiring 2L page allocations across all layers each time. To
reduce this overhead, kvcached reorganizes the memory lay-
out in virtual space, so that all layers’ K and V vectors of a
token are stored in contiguous virtual space, requiring only
one batch allocation for all pages ( 2L× speedup). Second,
kvcached uses a pre-allocation thread to asynchronously pre-
pare a small buffer of GPU pages. Engines draw new pages
from this buffer first, while released pages are returned to
it and only physically freed if the buffer exceeds its limit or
memory must be reclaimed for a new model. Finally, to re-
duce fragmentation, kvcached uses 2MB memory pages, and
prioritizes using partially filled pages.
D4: Elastic tensor abstraction. kvcached ensures trans-
parency with existing LLM serving frameworks by introduc-
ing an elastic tensor (eTensor) abstraction, implemented via
PyTorch’s extension interface to abstract away the details of
physical page allocation from the serving engine. Elastic
tensors can be used exactly like regular PyTorch tensors, re-
quiring no modifications to attention kernels and remaining
fully compatible with CUDA graph optimizations commonly
used in LLM serving frameworks.
5.3 Fast Model Loading
Model swapping speed directly impacts the flexibility of GPU
sharing. High latency can hinder the timely swapping of
models with strict SLOs, limiting policy adaptability. While
deactivation is straightforward, i.e., terminating the engine
and releasing all memory, reactivation is more complicated,
which involves: (1) initializing a new serving engine and
reserving a new virtual address space for KV cache pool; and
(2) loading the model weights from CPU DRAM. If done
naïvely, this process can take tens of seconds—far exceeding
the TTFT SLOs of online LLM inference, which are often
within a few seconds or less.
Reusable engine pools. The root cause of (1) lies in the
tight coupling between the engine and the model it serves. In
current systems, an engine shares the same lifecycle as its
model—when a model is evicted, its engine is also terminated,
along with its virtual address space. As a result, every model
activation incurs the full cost of engine initialization.
Prism eliminates this overhead by decoupling the lifecycles of
the engines and models. Specifically, it maintains an engine
pool on each GPU, where engines are pre-initialized with
virtual address space and distributed contexts. Upon model
activation, Prism selects an available engine from the pool
and starts model loading directly. When a model is evicted,
its physical memory is released, but its engine with virtual
address space is returned to the engine pool for future reuse.
However, an engine cannot directly reuse previously reserved
virtual memory space to serve a new model. This is because
current inference engines perform index-based token access,
which depends on a model-specific memory layout that is
incompatible with models of different architectures, e.g., dif-
ferent numbers of layers or token sizes. To address this, Prism
introduces a KV cache virtual memory manager to manage
the pre-reserved virtual memory spaces in the engine pool.
When a new model is loaded, the manager dynamically aligns
the reserved virtual space to match the memory layout re-
quired by the new model (one-time effort), and then creates
a new kvcached based on the aligned memory spaces. The
kvcached can then correctly and efficiently locate the virtual
memory page where each token resides during inference.
Parallel model weight loading. The time spent on (2)
model weight loading is heavily influenced by the utiliza-
tion of the CPU–GPU interconnect bandwidth. We found
that loading models naïvely via the cudaMemcpyAsync API
USENIX Association 20th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation    81
to a GPU fails to saturate the interconnect bandwidth, even
when invoked from multiple threads. This may be due to all
cudaMemcpyAsync operations targeting the same GPU exe-
cuting serially, limited by the CUDA driver and hardware.
Prism overcomes this bottleneck by chunking model weights
into smaller segments, loading them in parallel across mul-
tiple GPUs on the same node, and then aggregating them to
the target GPU via high-speed NVLink interconnects. This
parallelized strategy significantly accelerates model loading.
To minimize interference with running workloads on GPUs,
Prism partitions model weights at the granularity of individual
weight tensors and loads them in a streaming fashion. As a
result, each GPU only needs to maintain a small buffer (e.g.,
30MB), minimizing possible memory contention.
6 A Memory-Centric Control Plane
The memory ballooning mechanism in §5 provides the elas-
ticity needed to unify spatial and temporal sharing, but lever-
aging it effectively requires policies that adapt to evolving
bursty groups and volatile request patterns. Our goal is to
improve memory efficiency and maximize SLO attainment
for TTFT and TPOT through coordinated memory sharing.
Because TTFT and TPOT can interfere [65], we prioritize
TTFT, whose prompt length is known, while noting that the
resulting improvements in resource scheduling also benefit
TPOT by reducing memory-induced preemptions.
Challenges. Unifying time and space sharing complicates
scheduling because decisions must jointly span models, re-
quests, and tokens, all of which shape GPU memory usage
and latency. These layers are tightly coupled: model residency
sets memory availability, request concurrency determines con-
sumption, and token execution affects both utilization and
SLOs. Optimizing any one dimension in isolation—e.g., max-
imizing colocation or strictly protecting SLOs—can destabi-
lize the others. Consequently, time- and space-sharing choices
form a large, interdependent decision space where placement,
memory pressure, and request scheduling continually interact
in non-trivial ways.
A natural formulation of this problem is a joint optimiza-
tion over model placement, request scheduling, and memory
allocation (e.g., via an ILP), but this quickly becomes in-
tractable. The placement space alone is enormous: with M
models and N GPUs, there are NM possible assignments even
before considering migration decisions. Request scheduling
is likewise combinatorial, as differing prompt lengths, arrival
times, SLOs, output lengths, and engine states yield a facto-
rial explosion in possible execution orders. Moreover, place-
ment and scheduling are tightly coupled—migrating even one
model changes which GPUs can serve which requests and
how KV caches evolve, thereby altering future scheduling
decisions. All of this must be decided online, with the sched-
uler observing only recent arrivals while lacking knowledge
of future bursts, output lengths, or concurrency.
Insight. Our key insight is that this complexity simplifies
when managed through a memory-centric lens. Models,
requests, and tokens influence system behavior primarily
through how they consume and contend for GPU memory,
while SLO attainment is directly governed by the availability
of that memory at execution time. By making memory the
central optimization target, we unify multiple interacting ob-
jectives, utilization efficiency, latency control, and stability,
under a single principle: controlling memory contention. This
reduces a multi-metric, multi-level scheduling problem into a
tractable design centered on memory management.
Memory contention manifests at multiple scopes: cluster-
level model activity drives coarse-grained memory demand,
while fine-grained request dynamics determine SLO out-
comes. No single control loop can manage both effectively,
motivating a memory-centric hierarchical scheduler: a macro,
cluster-level plane that shapes memory pressure via model
placement, and a micro, GPU-level plane that allocates mem-
ory per request to satisfy heterogeneous SLOs. Coordinating
these layers enables Prism to maintain high utilization and
robust SLO attainment.
6.1 Load-Aware Model Placement
The objective of the global model placement strategy is to
place models across GPUs to maximize the headroom avail-
able for memory ballooning. If too many models from the
same active bursty group are colocated, they will simultane-
ously demand memory for KV-cache expansion, leading to
severe contention and out-of-memory errors.
To prevent this, Prism employs a load-aware placement
strategy. Because predicting exact memory usage is difficult
due to unknown output lengths of LLM inference requests,
we utilize a robust heuristic referred to as the KV Pressure
Ratio (KVPR). KVPR quantifies the intensity of memory
contention on a GPU by comparing the aggregate urgency of
memory demand against the remaining capacity, calculated as
w_token_rate
shared_kv , where w_token_rate = token_rate∗token_size
SLO repre-
sents the SLO-weighted token memory usage rate of a model,
indicating its memory demand per unit time. By counting
both input tokens from newly admitted requests and decode to-
kens produced by running requests per unit time, token_rate
captures the full KV-cache growth rate and helps KVPR accu-
rately reflect GPU memory pressure. We use the TPOT SLO
for SLO because autoregressive decoding dominates genera-
tion latency and is especially sensitive to KV-cache memory
contention. shared_kv is the memory available for the KV
cache on a GPU. A high KVPR indicates a high-pressure
GPU where memory ballooning is likely to be stifled.
Algorithm 1 realizes our model placement strategy. Prism
prioritizes the most aggressive memory consumers by sort-
ing models in descending order of their SLO-weighted token
usage rates w_token_rate , ensuring that high-demand work-
loads are allocated resources first (Lines 1–3). For each model,
the scheduler identifies the GPU that minimizes the resulting
82    20th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation USENIX Association
KVPR. This step inherently enforces complementarity: by
targeting the device with the lowest existing pressure, Prism
effectively colocates high-demand models with low-demand
ones, thereby maximizing the capacity available for the high-
demand model to balloon its memory usage (Lines 5–8). If the
selected GPU differs from the model’s current GPU, Prism
migrates the model accordingly. However, this migration
incurs overhead from engine switching and model weight
loading. To avoid unnecessary migrations with marginal ben-
efit, Prism compares the KVPR of the best and current GPUs,
and proceeds only if the improvement exceeds a threshold τ
(Line 8). Finally, Prism assigns the model to its selected GPU
and updates the corresponding GPU states (Lines 9–12).
Analysis. This greedy approach approximates the optimal
solution by bounding the maximum KVPR across the clus-
ter, ensuring that no single GPU becomes a disproportionate
bottleneck that stifles memory sharing. A detailed formal
analysis is provided in Appendix A.2. The algorithm also
seamlessly supports large models utilizing Tensor Parallelism
(TP). By treating each TP partition as a distinct schedul-
ing unit with anti-affinity constraints, Prism ensures they are
placed on separate GPUs, thereby aggregating memory ca-
pacity across devices to satisfy massive KV demands.
Model eviction and activation. The placement strategy
evicts a model if it remains idle and GPU resources become
constrained for other models. Prism performs eviction based
on an empirical threshold, which can be determined by analyz-
ing the idle interval distribution; a detailed sensitivity analysis
is provided in Appendix A.4. When the model receives new
requests, Prism immediately reactivates it by placing it on
the GPU with the lowest KV pressure ratio, drawing from a
pre-warmed engine pool with reusable distributed contexts
and buffers to avoid re-initialization, and using parallel weight
loading to keep cold-start latency within TTFT budgets (§5.3).
Model migration. Model migration is designed to preserve
TTFT during placement changes. Rather than stopping re-
quest processing while the destination instance is prepared,
Prism keeps the source instance active and continues serving
requests until the target is ready. This allows migration latency
to be overlapped with ongoing execution, so requests experi-
ence only the short switch-over delay. Therefore, Prism’s ef-
fectiveness does not depend on fast interconnects. Practically,
when the source and target GPUs are connected via NVLink,
Prism uses NVLink as an optional shortcut for migrating
model weights and resident KV caches. In non-NVLink envi-
ronments, Prism leverages GPUDirect RDMA [31] if avail-
able, or falls back to standard eviction and reactivation, which
takes at most a few seconds for <70B models.
6.2 Slack-Aware Request Arbitration
While global placement balances demand, memory contention
arises locally when resident models process requests concur-
rently. Under unified sharing, strict isolation causes fragmen-
Algorithm 1 Model Placement to Maximize Memory Head-
room.
Require: Number of GPUs N, GPU memory capacity C, migration
threshold τ, and M models. Each model m j has: token rate t j,
weight w j, token size tz j, current device index g j, and latency
SLO s j.
Ensure: Assign each model to a GPU to balance the resource de-
mand and remaining memory capacity.
1: Sort models by t j∗tz j
s j
in descending order. Denote the sorted
sequence as m1,m2, . . . ,mM.
2: for i = 1 to N do
3: shared_kvi← C; w_token_rate i← 0
4: for k = 1 to M do
5: /* find the GPU best_idx that minimizes KVPR */
6: best_r, best_idx← (min, argmin) w_token_rate i
shared_kvi
7: current_r← w_token_rate gk
shared_kvgk
8: best_gpu←
(
best_idx, if current_r− best_r > τ
gk, otherwise
9: Assign model mk to best_gpu
10: w_token_rate best_gpu← w_token_rate best_gpu + rk
sk
11: shared_kvbest_gpu← shared_kvbest_gpu− wk
12: return Model-to-GPU placement
tation, whereas uncontrolled sharing risks starvation, with
urgent requests blocked by long-running ones. Models on the
same GPU may compete for KV cache memory, and without
coordination a high-rate, relaxed-SLO model can monopolize
memory and degrade SLO attainment for stricter workloads.
A naïve approach is to cap each model’s memory usage, but
choosing appropriate limits is difficult under dynamic work-
loads and heterogeneous SLOs: conservative caps throttle
throughput, while generous ones starve other models. Adapt-
ing limits at runtime helps but cannot take effect immedi-
ately, since memory must be freed by completing in-flight
requests—a process that can take seconds depending on re-
quest length and load. This coordination challenge arises
because each engine maintains its own queue and greedily
schedules requests as memory becomes available.
To resolve this, Prism employs a slack-aware request ar-
bitration strategy. Instead of maintaining separate queues
per model, Prism uses a shared per-GPU request queue that
arbitrates access to each GPU’s physical memory pool to co-
ordinate the memory usage for heterogeneous SLO requests.
Our goal is to prioritize requests that are most critical for
maximizing SLO attainment. Prism goes beyond simple dead-
line prioritization by leveraging the exact time slack of each
request, which is defined as the buffer between a request’s
deadline and its required execution time.
With both the deadline (dr) and execution cost (er) known,
Prism transforms the scheduling challenge into a classic dead-
line problem. We adopt the Moore-Hodgson algorithm [25],
which minimizes the number of deadline misses. As shown in
Algorithm 2, given a set of requests R, Prism first sorts them
in ascending order of their prefill completion deadlines (Line
USENIX Association 20th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation    83
Algorithm 2 GPU-Local Request Scheduling
Require: A set of n requests R ={r1,r2, . . . ,rn}. Each request ri
has: a prompt length pi, a chunked-prefill speed ci determined
by the model serves it, a TTFT SLO si, and an arrival time ai.
Ensure: A subset of requests S⊆ R that can be executed in order to
maximize TTFT SLO attainment.
1: Sort R in ascending order of deadlines di = ai + si: r1,r2, . . . ,rn
such that d1≤ d2≤···≤ dn.
2: Initialize S← /0, current_time← Timer.time()
3: for k = 1 to n do
4: Let r← rk, er← pr
cr
5: Append r to S
6: Update current_time← current_time + er.
7: if current_time > ar + sr then
8: /* pop the request with longest execution time */
9: Let rmax← argmax
r′∈S
pr′
cr′
10: Remove rmax from S
11: Update current_time← current_time− prmax
crmax
12: return S
1). Then, for each request in the sorted list, Prism appends it
to the schedule list S and checks whether it can finish within
its TTFT SLO (Lines 3-7). If the most recently added request
cannot meet its deadline, Prism evicts the request in S with
the longest execution time (Lines 9–11). It then moves to the
next request and continues this process until evaluating all
requests. Finally, Prism dispatches the accepted requests in S
following their order in the schedule.
Analysis. Prism focuses arbitration on TTFT attainment
because it gates when a request can start; once admitted, a
request runs through decoding under its TPOT SLO, which
is governed by memory headroom rather than queue order-
ing. Long-running decode requests are preempted only when
memory is severely constrained, so a single heavy request
cannot stall many newly admitted ones, matching the batch
scheduling policies of SGLang and vLLM [21, 64].
Request scheduling ensures optimal TTFT attainment when
chunked-prefill has prefill running at each inference step. This
is because the prefill time er of a request r can be estimated as
er = pr
cr , allowing us to compute the prefill completion time of
any requestri in a sequence usingdri = ari +∑n
i=1
pri
cri
, where n
is the number of requests (includingri) waiting for processing.
With this information, we can follow the proof of the original
Moore-Hodgson algorithm [8] to prove the optimality of our
scheduling algorithm. Our admission control ensures prefill
runs at each inference step (so no starvation) by admitting
a proper number of requests to each engine and preempting
long decoding requests.
7 Evaluation
We implemented a prototype of Prism with∼10,400 lines of
Python and 774 lines of C++ code. As the serving backend,
we used SGLang [64], a widely adopted open-source infer-
Mean E2E
(s) P95 E2E (s) Req Tput (r/s) Token Tput (t/s)
MuxServe
7.40 18.85 7.97 3363.53
MuxServe++ 5.25 12.09 7.98 3353.09
Mean TTFT
(s) P95 TTFT (s) Mean TPOT (ms) P95 TPOT (ms)
MuxServe 1.47 11.04 21.21 31.95
MuxServe++ 0.089 0.320 18.82 33.97
Table 2: Performance comparison of MuxServe and MuxServe++
ence engine, and extended it with our elastic memory manager
library. The library is built on CUDA VMM APIs [28] and ex-
poses standard KV cache allocation APIs via Python bindings,
requiring only 22 lines of changes to integrate with SGLang.
On the frontend, we used a Redis queue [38] to cache
incoming requests from all clients. Prism’s local scheduler
dispatches these requests to the serving engines of correspond-
ing models based on Algorithm 2. For tensor-parallel models,
the GPU-local scheduler runs only on the first rank, and the
resulting scheduling decisions are broadcast to all other ranks
to ensure consistency. Prism’s global scheduler operates as a
separate Python process, collecting execution metrics from
each engine—such as request rates and queue status. It makes
scheduling decisions (e.g., model evictions and activations)
and communicates them to the engines using ZeroMQ [58].
7.1 Experimental Setup
Testbed. We conducted our experiments on a cluster of four
nodes, each equipped with eight NVIDIA H100-80G GPUs
interconnected via 600GB/s NVLink. These nodes commu-
nicate through a 100Gbps Ethernet network. Each node fea-
tures two 52-core Intel Xeon Platinum 8480+ CPUs, 1.7 TB
of DRAM, and a PCIe Gen5 x16 interface. All nodes run
Ubuntu 22.04 with CUDA Toolkit 12.4.
Baselines. We compared Prism against four baselines that
share GPUs to serve multi-LLMs: (1) Static partition (S-
Partition); (2) MuxServe++; (3) QLM [33]; and (4) Server-
lessLLM [13]. Note that the original MuxServe is built on
vLLM and supports only Llama-2 models. We ported it to
SGLang and generalized its memory mechanism with our
kvcached to support heterogeneous models, referred to as
MuxServe++. We evaluated the performance of MuxServe++
and MuxServe using three Llama-3.1-8B models under differ-
ent request rates over a 10-minute period: 199 requests/min,
262 requests/min, and 22 requests/min. All experiments were
conducted under the same and consistent conditions. The
results are shown in Table 2. As we can see, MuxServe++
achieves comparable or even better performance.
Note that general GPU-sharing systems target application-
agnostic workloads and cannot be directly compared: they
focus on single-GPU sharing rather than cluster-level GPU
sharing, and are not designed to optimize LLM serving, which
requires both TTFT and TPOT adherence (§8).
Traces and models. We used two real-world traces, Hyper-
bolic [19] and Arena-Chat [9]. For each trace, we sampled
a representative set of models, including both popular and
84    20th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation USENIX Association
Model size 1B-3B 4B-8B 9B-30B 31B-70B
#LLMs 43 8 3 4
Table 3: Models used in our evaluation.
long-tail models, ensuring their workload characteristics (e.g.,
popularity distribution and idle patterns) align with the ob-
servations in §3. To simulate various scenarios, we scaled
the traces by multiplying the number of requests by a factor
of N, increasing the load while preserving the original traffic
patterns—a common way used in prior work [11,22]. In total,
we evaluated 58 LLMs as detailed in Table 3. The large-scale
experiments (§7.4) use all models, while other evaluations
(§7.2—§7.3) select subsets tailored to specific goals.
Metrics. Our primary performance metrics are TTFT and
TPOT attainment. To establish SLOs for each model, we
first ran its workload on dedicated GPUs to measure its P95
TTFT and TPOT latencies. This process produced TTFT
SLOs ranging from 0.04s to 0.13s and TPOT SLOs from
5.2ms to 50.9ms. We then scaled these base values by a
factor to evaluate system performance under varying latency
requirements, following an approach consistent with prior
work [11, 22, 36]. We also reported aggregated throughput.
To account for model idle periods, throughput considers the
actual time (excluding idle time) spent serving them.
7.2 End-to-End Performance
We start with the end-to-end performance of Prism under
varying request rates, SLO requirements, and GPU supplies.
SLO attainment vs. request rate. We first evaluated various
inference loads by serving eight models on two shared GPUs.
As shown in Figure 5 (first row), Prism consistently out-
performs all baselines by maintaining a significantly higher
TTFT SLO attainment. On the Hyperbolic trace, Prism sup-
ports up to 2.3× and 3.5× more requests than MuxServe++
and static partitioning, respectively, while still achieving 99%
SLO attainment. On the Arena-Chat trace, it handles over 3×
more requests than all baselines. The gains stem from KVPR-
driven placement, which keeps per-GPU memory pressure
low so active models retain headroom under bursty arrivals.
MuxServe++’s TTFT SLO attainment drops quickly with
higher request rates because it cannot evict idle models or
relocate models across GPUs, leading to memory contention
and degraded performance.
QLM time-shares GPUs by packing pending requests into
groups and dispatching each group to a GPU under an SLO-
aware stochastic policy, swapping models and preempting
unfinished requests whenever consecutive groups target dif-
ferent models. The frequent swapping makes QLM’s TTFT
attainment worse than static partitioning.
ServerlessLLM serves models in a time-sharing manner
for serverless workloads: inactive models are unloaded, and
newly arriving requests wait until the scheduler reactivates the
required model on the server with the fastest startup, selected
based on checkpoint locality. Because the full cold-start pro-
cess still dominates request latency, ServerlessLLM achieves
the worst TTFT SLO attainment.
Prism maintains high TPOT attainment through its demand-
aware scheduler, which balances workloads to reduce memory
contention. Although the scheduler explicitly targets TTFT,
TPOT benefits as a side effect: TPOT is degraded mainly by
oversized batches and memory-induced preemptions, both
of which subside once KVPR-balanced placement caps per-
GPU memory contention. QLM achieves lower TPOT be-
cause it over-batches under high load, increasing per-iteration
latency, while ServerlessLLM performs even worse by al-
lowing unbounded batch sizes that further raise P99 TPOT.
Both MuxServe++ and static partitioning experience severe
memory contention at high request rates, causing frequent
preemptions that substantially degrade TPOT.
SLO attainment vs. SLO requirements. The middle row
of Figure 5 shows the attainment across different SLO tar-
gets. As SLO scales up, Prism quickly achieves 99% TTFT
and TPOT attainment. In contrast, no baseline achieves 99%
TTFT attainment even on the largest SLO scale in this experi-
ment, and their attainment rates do not improve significantly
as the scale increases. Among the baselines, MuxServe++
achieves the best TTFT performance, reaching 84.79% and
67.22% attainment on the largest SLO scale for the two traces.
The gap to Prism is primarily due to their inflexibility to adapt
sharing policies dynamically. The TPOT attainment of all sys-
tems increases rapidly as the SLO scale grows because TPOT
is less sensitive to memory contention. We also observe that
the Hyperbolic trace requires higher SLO scales due to more
bursty and heavier request patterns.
SLO attainment vs. available GPUs. Finally, we evaluate
performance when provisioning more GPUs. We selected
18 models from Table 3, representing a mix of popular and
tail models with diverse load variability. To fully test the
flexibility of our scheduling strategy, we included models
of varying sizes from 1B to 8B, all of which fit within a
single 80GB GPU. This setup enables a wide range of model-
sharing combinations across GPUs. As shown in Figure 5
(last row), Prism achieves 99% TTFT and TPOT attainment
using only four and five GPUs on the two traces, respectively,
demonstrating its effectiveness in improving cost-efficiency
while maintaining performance. In comparison, all baselines
fail to reach 99% TTFT attainment even with eight GPUs,
and only a few baselines achieve 99% TPOT attainment when
seven or eight GPUs are provisioned.
7.3 Performance Analysis
Next, we provide a detailed performance breakdown to ana-
lyze the effectiveness of each design in Prism and how each
contributes to its strong end-to-end performance.
Flexible cross-model memory sharing. We first evaluated
the benefits of our flexible cross-model memory sharing by
comparing with static partition using a simplified two-model
trace extracted from Arena-Chat, shown in Figure 6 (first
USENIX Association 20th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation    85
Figure 5: End-to-end performance comparison on SLO attainments under varying scales of rates, SLOs, and numbers of available GPUs. The
dotted vertical lines mark where the system reaches 99% TTFT or TPOT attainment.
Figure 6: Benefits of cross-model memory coordination. The first
figure shows the request rates. The last two figures shows the total
KV memory size and the throughout of the two models.
row). We present the normalized total KV cache usage and
aggregated throughput for both methods in the last two rows
of Figure 6. As we can see, Prism’s on-demand memory
allocation allows it to use more memory for KV cache, par-
ticularly after the 20th second, when Model1 experiences low
demand while Model2 faces a surge in request rates. The
larger KV cache memory enables Prism to achieve higher
throughput, as shown in the last row. In contrast, under static
partitioning, even when Model1 underutilizes its memory,
Model2 cannot leverage the unused memory due to the static
allocation boundary.
(a) Attainment with rate scales
 (b) GPU load status
Figure 7: Effectiveness of global model placement scheduling.
Model placement. Next, we evaluated the benefits of our
global scheduler that conducts model placement. In this exper-
iment, we used two GPUs to serve eight models from Arena-
Chat. Figure 7a presents the TTFT and TPOT attainment with
the global scheduler enabled or disabled. The results show
that enabling the global scheduler significantly improves both
TTFT and TPOT attainment. To provide further insights, we
plot the average KV cache memory available per request as it
arrives on each GPU. With the global scheduler enabled, the
load is more evenly balanced across the two GPUs, allowing
each request to access more KV cache memory on average. In
contrast, without the global placement scheduler, the load is
imbalanced: GPU1 shows more available memory during the
first 600 seconds, while the near-zero availability between the
800th and 1000th seconds indicates that GPU1 is idle while
GPU0 is overloaded.
Request arbitration. To evaluate the GPU-local scheduler
that prioritizes requests, we use two models: we fix the SLO
scale of Model1 to eight and vary the SLO scales of Model2
...., LO 
C 
QJ 
E 
C 
-~ 0.5 
"' g 
\/l 
0.0 
LOO ...., 
C 
E 0.15 
C 
~ 0.50 
"' 9 0.25 
\/l 
0.00 
LOO ...., 
C 
E o.75 
C 
~ 0.50 
"' 9 0.25 
\/l 
0.00 
i;: 0.5 
E 
0 
-+- Ours 
-TTFT (Hyperbolic) 
4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32 
Rate scale 
I 
z-: 
' ' ' ' 
! : : : : 
I 
I 
I 
5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 
SLO scale 
;j := I 
I 
4 5 6 7 8 
Num GPUs 
0 10 20 30 
z 0.0 _,__,..='----~--'----L,----
...., 1.0 
::, 
fr 
g 0.5 
0 
z 
0 
0 
10 20 30 
10 20 30 
lime (s) 
5-Partition -+- MuxServe++ __,._ QLM .......... ServerlessLLM 
LO 
0.5 
0.0 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32 
Rate scale 
LOO 
0.75 
0.50 
0.25 
0.00 10 14 18 22 26 30 
SLO scale 
LOO 
~ 
0.75 
0.50 I : I 
I 
0.25 
I 
I 
-....-----r 
0.00 
4 5 6 7 8 
Num GPUs 
40 50 60 
Per-model static 
40 50 60 
- On-demand 
Per-model static 
40 so 60 
TTFT (Arena-chat) TPOT (Arena-chat) 
...., LO 
~ 
1.0 .... C 
QJ 
E 
~ 
C 
~ 0.5 0.5 
"' g 
\/l I I I 0.0 0.0 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 
Rate scale Rate scale 
1.00 LOO ...., 
C 
E 0.15 0.75 
C 
~: ~ 0.50 0.50 
"' 9 0.25 0.25 
\/l 
0.00 0.00 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 LO 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 
SLO Scale SLO Scale 
LOO LOO I ...., 
:~ 
C 
:= i E 0.15 0.95 
' C 
' ~~ 
~ 0.50 ' 0.90 I 
' 
I 
"' ;:: : I 
I 
9 0.25 
~ 0.251 ' \/l 
' 0.00 0.00 I 
4 
1.0 
...., 
ID o.a 
E 
·= 0.6 
"' ti 
<( 0.4 
g 
1/1 0.2 
5 6 7 8 
Num GPUs 
~ 
flt '.:.:•--• .... 
•-... •-:::.:::-· 
_..,.. TTFT (w/) -• 
-•· TTFT (w/o) 
....... TPOT(w/) 
-•· TPOT (w/o) 
o.o+-~~~-~-~-~-,-, 
5.0 7 .5 10.0 12.5 15.0 17 .5 20.0 
Rate scale 
4 5 6 7 8 
Num GPUs 
200 400 600 800 1000 1200 
Time(s) 
86    20th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation USENIX Association
(a) Attainment with SLO scales
 (b) Queue length with time
Figure 8: Effectiveness of GPU local request scheduling.
(a) SLO attainment with cluster size scaling
(b) Number of GPUs needed for 99% SLO attainments
Figure 9: SLO attainment and cost saving at large scales.
to evaluate the priority-based admission control in the GPU-
local scheduling. Figure 8a shows the TTFT attainment as
we vary the SLO scale of Model2. Model1 consistently main-
tains high attainment, and enabling our GPU-local scheduling
improves the SLO attainment of Model2 by more than 40%.
To dive deeper, we plot the queue length of each model in
Figure 8b of one experiment run. From the queue lengths, we
clearly observe that when the local scheduler is enabled, the
system prioritizes Model2’s requests, which are shorter but
have stricter SLO requirements.
7.4 Large-Scale Evaluation
Finally, we evaluated how effectively Prism in reducing the
cost of multi-LLM serving at scale. We served all 58 models
listed in Table 3, following common TP practices for large
models: TP=4 for 32B models [46,47] and TP=4 or 8 for 70B
models [2, 24], utilizing 32 GPUs in total. We sampled 58
models from the Arena-Chat trace and the Hyperbolic trace.
SLO attainments vs. number of GPUs. Figure 9a shows
TTFT and TPOT attainment with an increased number of
GPUs. Prism outperforms all baselines, achieving nearly
99% TTFT attainment with just 16 GPUs, while MuxServe++
requires 32 GPUs to reach similar performance, and other
methods require even more. As the number of GPUs in-
creases, all baselines improve in TTFT and TPOT attainment
Figure 10: The activation time for models with different sizes. Data
is measured on H100 GPUs.
(a) Company A
 (b) Company B
Figure 11: Production results from two companies, showing (a)
throughput and (b) revenue per GPU before and after using Prism.
except QLM. We find this to be related to its suboptimal
scheduling algorithm. QLM assigns requests to GPUs with-
out considering which models are already on GPUs; when a
queue is empty, it picks the first available GPU, often trigger-
ing unnecessary swaps. With more GPUs, this leads to more
idle devices and frequent swapping. Its inefficient swapping,
which requires engine restart [37], adds significant latency,
causing queued requests to miss their SLOs.
Cost saving. Figure 9b shows the number of GPUs required
to achieve 99% SLO attainments at different SLO scales. If
a system fails to achieve 99% attainment with all 32 GPUs,
we denote its GPU requirement as “32+”. Prism achieves
99% TTFT SLO attainments with only 16 GPUs when SLO
scale is 5 and TPOT SLO scale is 2.0. MuxServe++ needs 20
GPUs to get 99% TTFT SLO attainments with SLO scale≥
30, while static partition needs even more GPUs or a higher
SLO scale. For TPOT, static partition is the best across all
baselines, requiring 20 GPUs, while QLM and MuxServe++
need at least 29 GPUs when TPOT SLO scale≤ 3.0.
7.5 System Overhead
Model activation latency. We also measured model activa-
tion latency from pageable CPU memory for models ranging
from 1B to 70B parameters (see §5.3 for more details). Our
optimizations significantly reduce activation latency. Prism
loads small models (1B∼8B) within 0.7s, a medium-size
model (14B) in just 1.3s, and large models (>70B) in 1.5s
(Figure 10). These results show that Prism can promptly
activate evicted models upon receiving new requests.
Activation and migration frequency. Over a 10-minute
window of the eight-models-on-two-GPUs run, Prism issued
~1.0~ 
~ 0.8 
E 
·i 0.6 
: 0.4 --------------------------11 
1= 0.2 --+- w/ modl -•· w/o modl 
- w/ mod2 -•· w/o mod2 
O.O-'-,--~--~-----.J 
E i.o 
t. 0.8 
~ 
C 
~ 0.6 
-~ 0.4 
~ O 0.2 
...J 
V> 0.0 
"' K 32 
l!l 28 
~ 24 
i 20 
~ 16 
Z 12 
2 3 4 
Model2 SLO scale 
F 
16 20 24 28 32 
Num GPUs 
5 15 30 52 80 
TIFT SLO Scale 
£ 
"' C 
60 
.!Jt 40 
-0 ., 
::, 
QI 20 ::, 
0 
1="1.0 
0 0.. 
t:. 0.9 
~ 
@ 0.8 
E 
-~ 0.7 
~ 0.6 
g 
V> 0.5 
32 
28 
24 
20 
16 
12 
-
5-Partition - MuxServe++ - QLM 
- w/modl 
- w/mod2 
w/o modl 
10 20 30 
Time (s) 
---~
-+-- MuxServe++ 
~ Ours 
--- 5-Partition 
....,..__ QLM 
_._ ServerlessLLM 
16 20 
24 28 32 
Num GPUs 
2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 
TPOT SLO Scale 
-
Server1essLLM 
-
Ours 
70B 
(TP=8) 
14B 
~ 1500 
g 
l 1000 
e sao 
~ 
8B 
3B 
1B 
0 1 
3.65-
3.ls 
-
7.2s 
7.ls 
Naive model loading 
+ Pre-inited Engine 
+ Parallel loading 
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Activation Latency (seconds) 
- Before 
-After 
08:00 12:00 16:00 20:00 00:00 04:00 08:00 
Operational Time of Day 
10 20 30 40 50 
Time Window (lh) 
USENIX Association 20th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation    87
2 idle-driven activations and 3 inter-GPU migrations. Migra-
tions stay off the TTFT critical path: weights and in-flight
KV state transfer over NVLink within tens of milliseconds
(e.g.,∼20 ms for an 8B model) while the source instance
keeps serving. Activations complete within 2 s, well inside
the multi-second TTFT SLOs typical of online serving.
Elastic memory overhead. We evaluated Prism’s elastic
memory overhead in the worst case, where the request rates
are constant, leaving no opportunities for dynamic sharing.
With two colocated Llama-3.2-3B models on an A100-40G
GPU, Prism incurs only 3 ms (4 %) TTFT and 4 ms (13 %)
TPOT overhead at a high load of 32 req/s and only 2 ms (3.5
%) TTFT and 3 ms (7 %) TPOT overhead at a high load of 28
req/s (see §A.3), compared to static partitioning.
7.6 Production Workloads
As of December 2025, Prism has been deployed in multiple or-
ganizations serving LLM workloads. Figure 11 summarizes
deployments at a large tech company (Company A) using
Prism on an internal GPU cluster, and a commercial LLM
inference provider (Company B) serving external customers.
To isolate Prism’s contribution from workload variation, both
deployments use shadow workload replay: the same online
request stream is mirrored to two identical clusters, one run-
ning Prism and the other not, so that the model mix and traffic
patterns are held constant across the two arms.
Figure 11a shows Company A’s per-GPU token through-
put before and after adopting Prism. Company A serves
diverse applications using fine-tuned and off-the-shelf models
(3B–70B) on a shared GPU pool. With Prism dynamically ad-
justing model placement and sharing—without changes to ex-
isting inference engines—Company A achieves consistently
higher throughput (3.89× on average) over several weeks, with
no SLO violations and unchanged tail latency. Figure 11b
presents results from Company B, which optimizes revenue
per GPU under highly variable traffic, computed as the pre-
fill and decode tokens generated in the window priced at the
provider’s published per-token rates, normalized by GPU
count. Prior to Prism, fragmentation and overprovisioning
constrained revenue; after deployment, Prism improves uti-
lization while meeting all SLOs, raising revenue per GPU by
2.86× by converting idle capacity into billable tokens.
8 Related Work
SLO-aware LLM scheduling. Llumnix [45], SLOs-
Serve [6], ExeGPT [32], SAGESERVE [20], DistServe [65],
and MELL [35] explore SLO-aware scheduling to improve
LLM inference performance. However, they primarily focus
on request scheduling or resource allocation for single-model
serving, while Prism enables dynamic cross-model memory
harvesting for efficient multi-model serving.
Memory management in LLM serving. vAttention [34]
and vTensor [56] use CUDA virtual memory APIs [28] to
decouple physical and virtual memory allocation. However,
their purpose is to simplify programming and improve kernel
efficiency for single-LLM serving. In addition, they require
re-implementing a large portion of the current inference en-
gine stack, while our method preserves compatibility with the
widely used PagedAttention [21] mechanism.
GPU sharing techniques. GPU sharing has been exten-
sively studied [5, 7, 11, 13, 16–18, 22, 26, 33, 44, 49, 51–53,
55, 57, 60, 61, 63], but largely at the OS or runtime layer
for application-agnostic, single-GPU workloads. Compute-
centric designs time-slice between latency-critical and best-
effort co-tenants [12,52] or add preemptive scheduling across
heterogeneous accelerators [42], whereas Prism targets mem-
ory sharing across uniformly latency-critical LLMs span-
ning multiple GPUs. The closest memory-centric work,
MSched [41], schedules GPU–CPU paging after oversub-
scription, while Prism proactively prevents oversubscription
via coordinated placement. Existing multi-LLM solutions re-
main fragmented: MuxServe [11] supports spatial sharing but
pins models to devices even when idle, while Aegaeon [53]
performs temporal sharing via prefill–decode disaggregation,
requiring weight duplication and struggling with diverse, dy-
namic access patterns. Prism unifies spatial and temporal
sharing through elastic GPU memory management.
9 Conclusion
This paper introduces Prism, a multi-LLM serving system that
improves cost efficiency while maximizing SLO attainment
via GPU sharing. Prism achieves this by enabling flexible
memory ballooning, and employing a two-level scheduling
algorithm to make efficient use of GPU memory.
Acknowledgments
We thank the anonymous reviewers for their comments and
are particularly grateful to our shepherd Xiaosong Ma for her
valuable feedback. We also thank Ion Stoica, Matei Zaharia,
Jiangfei Duan, Chenxi Wang, Shi Liu, Zhenting Zhu, and
Yicheng Liu for their discussions and insights. We are grateful
to Hyperbolic, Novita AI, Chatbot Arena, NVIDIA, and the
SGLang open-source community for production traces and
hardware support. This work was supported by an Amazon AI
Fellowship (awarded to Shan Yu), the National Science Foun-
dation (CNS-1763172, CNS-2007737, CNS-2006437, CNS-
2106838, CNS-2147909, CNS-2128653, CNS-2301343,
CNS-2330831, CNS-2403254, IIS-2546642), the Alibaba
Research Intern Program, and gifts to Sky Computing Lab
from industry partners (Accenture, AMD, Anyscale, Cisco,
Google, IBM, Intel, Intesa Sanpaolo, Lambda, Lightspeed,
Mibura, Microsoft, NVIDIA, Samsung SDS, and SAP). Junyi
Shu, Jiarong Xing, Harry Xu, and Ying Sheng are the corre-
sponding authors.
88    20th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation USENIX Association
References
[1] N. Agarwal. Implementing Fractional
GPUs in Kubernetes with Aliyun Scheduler.
https : / / huggingface.co / blog / NileshInfer /
implementing-fractional-gpus-in-kubernetes ,
2024. Accessed: May, 2025.
[2] M. AI. Llama 3.3-70B-Instruct. https :
//huggingface. co/meta- llama/Llama- 3. 3- 70B-
Instruct, 2024. Accessed: May, 2025.
[3] N. AI. Novita AI homepage. https://novita.ai/,
2025. Accessed: May, 2025.
[4] ai-dynamo. dynamo: A datacenter-scale distributed
inference serving framework. https://github.com/
ai-dynamo/dynamo, 2025. Accessed: 2025-08-18.
[5] G. Chen, Y . Zhao, X. Shen, and H. Zhou. Effisha: A
software framework for enabling effficient preemptive
scheduling of gpu. In Proceedings of the 22nd ACM
SIGPLAN Symposium on Principles and Practice of Par-
allel Programming, PPoPP ’17, page 3–16, New York,
NY , USA, 2017. Association for Computing Machinery.
[6] S. Chen, Z. Jia, S. Khan, A. Krishnamurthy, and P. B.
Gibbons. SLOs-Serve: Optimized Serving of Multi-
SLO LLMs. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.08784, 2025.
[7] W. Chen, Z. Mo, H. Xu, K. Ye, and C. Xu. Interference-
aware multiplexing for deep learning in gpu clusters:
A middleware approach. In Proceedings of the Inter-
national Conference for High Performance Computing,
Networking, Storage and Analysis, SC ’23, New York,
NY , USA, 2023. Association for Computing Machinery.
[8] J. Cheriyan, R. Ravi, and M. Skutella. A Simple Proof
of the Moore-Hodgson Algorithm for Minimizing the
Number of Late Jobs. Operations Research Letters,
49(6):842–843, 2021.
[9] W.-L. Chiang, L. Zheng, Y . Sheng, A. N. Angelopoulos,
T. Li, D. Li, H. Zhang, B. Zhu, M. Jordan, J. E. Gonza-
lez, and I. Stoica. Chatbot Arena: An Open Platform
for Evaluating LLMs by Human Preference, 2024.
[10] P. H. Coppock, B. Zhang, E. H. Solomon, V . Kypriotis,
L. Yang, B. Sharma, D. Schatzberg, T. C. Mowry, and
D. Skarlatos. Lithos: An operating system for efficient
machine learning on gpus. In Proceedings of the ACM
SIGOPS 31st Symposium on Operating Systems Princi-
ples, SOSP ’25, page 1–17, New York, NY , USA, 2025.
Association for Computing Machinery.
[11] J. Duan, R. Lu, H. Duanmu, X. Li, X. Zhang, D. Lin,
I. Stoica, and H. Zhang. MuxServe: Flexible Multiplex-
ing for Efficient Multiple LLM Serving. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2404.02015, 2024.
[12] R. Fan, T. Ren, M. Xie, S. Gao, J. Shu, and Y . Lu.
Gpreempt: Gpu preemptive scheduling made general
and efficient. In Proceedings of the 2025 USENIX
Conference on Usenix Annual Technical Conference,
USENIX ATC ’25, USA, 2025. USENIX Association.
[13] Y . Fu, L. Xue, Y . Huang, A.-O. Brabete, D. Ustiugov,
Y . Patel, and L. Mai. ServerlessLLM:Low-Latency
Serverless Inference for Large Language Models. In
USENIX OSDI, pages 135–153, 2024.
[14] S. Gao, Q. Wang, S. Zeng, Y . Lu, and J. Shu. Weaver:
efficient multi-llm serving with attention offloading. In
ATC, USENIX ATC ’25, USA, 2025. USENIX Associ-
ation.
[15] R. L. Graham. Bounds on Multiprocessing Timing
Anomalies. SIAM Journal on Applied Mathematics,
17(2):416–429, 1969.
[16] L. Han, Z. Zhou, and Z. Li. Pantheon: Preemptible
Multi-DNN Inference on Mobile Edge GPUs. In Pro-
ceedings of the 22nd Annual International Conference
on Mobile Systems, Applications and Services, pages
465–478, 2024.
[17] M. Han, H. Zhang, R. Chen, and H. Chen. Microsecond-
Scale Preemption for Concurrent GPU-Accelerated
DNN Inferences. In 16th USENIX Symposium on Oper-
ating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI 22),
pages 539–558, 2022.
[18] M. Han, H. Zhang, R. Chen, and H. Chen. Microsecond-
scale preemption for concurrent GPU-accelerated DNN
inferences. In 16th USENIX Symposium on Operating
Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI 22), pages
539–558, Carlsbad, CA, July 2022. USENIX Associa-
tion.
[19] Hyperbolic. Hyperbolic: The Open Access AI Cloud.
Hyperbolic Provides Affordable GPU Access and In-
ference Services for Those at the Edges of AI. https:
//hyperbolic.xyz/, 2024.
[20] S. Jaiswal, K. Jain, Y . Simmhan, A. Parayil, A. Mallick,
R. Wang, R. S. Amant, C. Bansal, V . Rühle, A. Kulkarni,
et al. Serving Models, Fast and Slow: Optimizing
Heterogeneous LLM Inferencing Workloads at Scale.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.14617, 2025.
[21] W. Kwon, Z. Li, S. Zhuang, Y . Sheng, L. Zheng, C. H.
Yu, J. Gonzalez, H. Zhang, and I. Stoica. Efficient Mem-
ory Management for Large Language Model Serving
with PagedAttention. In J. Flinn, M. I. Seltzer, P. Dr-
uschel, A. Kaufmann, and J. Mace, editors, Proceedings
of the 29th Symposium on Operating Systems Principles,
SOSP 2023, pages 611–626. ACM, 2023.
USENIX Association 20th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation    89
[22] Z. Li, L. Zheng, Y . Zhong, V . Liu, Y . Sheng, X. Jin,
Y . Huang, Z. Chen, H. Zhang, J. E. Gonzalez, and I. Sto-
ica. AlpaServe: Statistical Multiplexing with Model
Parallelism for Deep Learning Serving. In 17th USENIX
Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Imple-
mentation (OSDI 23), pages 663–679, Boston, MA, July
2023. USENIX Association.
[23] llm-d. llm-d: A kubernetes-native high-performance
distributed llm inference framework. https : / /
github.com/llm-d, 2025. Accessed: 2025-08-18.
[24] Meta. Introducing Llama 3.1: Our Most Capable
Models to Date. https://ai.meta.com/blog/meta-
llama-3-1/, 2024.
[25] J. M. Moore. An N Job, One Machine Sequencing
Algorithm for Minimizing the Number of Late Jobs.
Management Science, 15(1):102–109, 1968.
[26] K. K. Ng, H. M. Demoulin, and V . Liu. Paella: Low-
Latency Model Serving with Software-Defined GPU
Scheduling. In Proceedings of the 29th Symposium on
Operating Systems Principles, pages 595–610, 2023.
[27] NVIDIA. NVIDIA Multi-Process Service. https:
//docs.nvidia.com/deploy/mps/index.html, 2024.
Accessed: August, 2025.
[28] NVIDIA. CUDA Toolkit Documentation: Virtual Mem-
ory Management. https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/
cuda - driver - api / group__CUDA__VA.html, 2025.
Accessed: May, 2025.
[29] NVIDIA. NVIDIA Multi-Instance GPU. https:
/ / www.nvidia.com / en - us / technologies / multi -
instance-gpu/, 2025. Accessed: May, 2025.
[30] NVIDIA. Unlock Next Level Performance with Vir-
tual GPUs. https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/data-
center/virtual-solutions/, 2025. Accessed: Au-
gust, 2025.
[31] NVIDIA. NVIDIA GPUDirect RDMA. https://
network.nvidia.com/products/GPUDirect- RDMA/ ,
2026.
[32] H. Oh, K. Kim, J. Kim, S. Kim, J. Lee, D.-s. Chang, and
J. Seo. Exegpt: Constraint-Aware Resource Scheduling
for LLM Inference. In Proceedings of the 29th ACM
International Conference on Architectural Support for
Programming Languages and Operating Systems, Vol-
ume 2, pages 369–384, 2024.
[33] A. Patke, D. Reddy, S. Jha, H. Qiu, C. Pinto,
C. Narayanaswami, Z. Kalbarczyk, and R. Iyer. Queue
Management for SLO-Oriented Large Language Model
Serving. In Proceedings of the 2024 ACM Symposium
on Cloud Computing, SoCC ’24, page 18–35, New York,
NY , USA, 2024. Association for Computing Machinery.
[34] R. Prabhu, A. Nayak, J. Mohan, R. Ramjee, and A. Pan-
war. vAttention: Dynamic Memory Management for
Serving LLMs without PagedAttention, 2024.
[35] L. Qianli, H. Zicong, C. Fahao, L. Peng, and G. Song.
Mell: Memory-Efficient Large Language Model Serving
via Multi-GPU KV Cache Management. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2501.06709, 2025.
[36] R. Qin, Z. Li, W. He, J. Cui, F. Ren, M. Zhang, Y . Wu,
W. Zheng, and X. Xu. Mooncake: Trading More Stor-
age for Less Computation—A KVCache-Centric Archi-
tecture for Serving LLM Chatbot. In 23rd USENIX
Conference on File and Storage Technologies (FAST
25), pages 155–170, 2025.
[37] QLM Project. QLM: Quantum Language Model Project.
https : / / github.com / QLM - project / QLM / blob /
eea5b622e2c4c6abd705876880f50014c4d9d0d1 /
qlm/endpoints/endpoint.py#L57, 2024. Accessed:
May, 2025.
[38] Redis. Redis List documentation. https://redis.io/
docs/latest/develop/data-types/lists/ , 2025.
Accessed: May, 2025.
[39] RyokoAI. Sharegpt dataset. https://sharegpt.com,
2024.
[40] sgl project. Ome: A kubernetes operator for enterprise-
grade management and serving of llms, 2025.
[41] W. Shen, Y . Chen, R. Chen, and H. Chen. Msched: Gpu
multitasking via proactive memory scheduling. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2512.24637, 2025.
[42] W. Shen, M. Han, J. Liu, R. Chen, and H. Chen. Xsched:
preemptive scheduling for diverse xpus. In Proceedings
of the 19th USENIX Conference on Operating Systems
Design and Implementation, OSDI ’25, USA, 2025.
USENIX Association.
[43] Y . Sheng, S. Cao, D. Li, C. Hooper, N. Lee, S. Yang,
C. Chou, B. Zhu, L. Zheng, K. Keutzer, J. E. Gonzalez,
and I. Stoica. SLoRA: Scalable Serving of Thousands of
LoRA Adapters. In Proceedings of Machine Learning
and Systems, volume 6, pages 296–311, 2024.
[44] F. Strati, X. Ma, and A. Klimovic. Orion: Interference-
Aware, Fine-Grained GPU Sharing for ML Applications.
In Proceedings of the Nineteenth European Conference
on Computer Systems, pages 1075–1092, 2024.
[45] B. Sun, Z. Huang, H. Zhao, W. Xiao, X. Zhang, Y . Li,
and W. Lin. Llumnix: Dynamic Scheduling for Large
90    20th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation USENIX Association
Language Model Serving. In 18th USENIX Sympo-
sium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation
(OSDI 24), pages 173–191, 2024.
[46] Q. Team. Qwen2.5-32b. https://huggingface.co/
Qwen/Qwen2.5-32B, 2024. Accessed: May, 2025.
[47] Q. Team. Qwen2.5: A Party of Foundation Models.
https://qwenlm. github.io/blog/qwen2. 5/, 2024.
Accessed: May, 2025.
[48] Y . Wang, Y . Chen, Z. Li, Z. Tang, R. Guo, X. Wang,
Q. Wang, A. C. Zhou, and X. Chu. Towards efficient
and reliable llm serving: A real-world workload study,
2024.
[49] Y . Wang, C. Liu, D. Wong, and H. Kim. Gcaps: Gpu
context-aware preemptive priority-based scheduling for
real-time tasks, 2024.
[50] Wang, Jiahao and Han, Jinbo and Wei, Xingda and Shen,
Sijie and Zhang, Dingyan and Fang, Chenguang and
Chen, Rong and Yu, Wenyuan and Chen, Haibo. Kv-
cache cache in the wild: Characterizing and optimiz-
ing kvcache cache at a large cloud provider. In 2025
USENIX Annual Technical Conference (USENIX ATC
25), pages 465–482. USENIX Association, July 2025.
[51] Q. Weng, L. Yang, Y . Yu, W. Wang, X. Tang, G. Yang,
and L. Zhang. Beware of fragmentation: Scheduling
GPU-Sharing workloads with fragmentation gradient
descent. In 2023 USENIX Annual Technical Conference
(USENIX ATC 23), pages 995–1008, Boston, MA, July
2023. USENIX Association.
[52] B. Wu, Z. Zhang, Z. Bai, X. Liu, and X. Jin. Transpar-
ent GPU sharing in container clouds for deep learning
workloads. In 20th USENIX Symposium on Networked
Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI 23), pages
69–85, Boston, MA, April 2023. USENIX Association.
[53] Y . Xiang, X. Li, K. Qian, Y . Yang, D. Zhu, W. Yu,
E. Zhai, X. Liu, X. Jin, and J. Zhou. Aegaeon: Effective
gpu pooling for concurrent llm serving on the market.
In SOSP, SOSP ’25, page 1030–1045, New York, NY ,
USA, 2025. Association for Computing Machinery.
[54] Y . Xiang, X. Li, K. Qian, W. Yu, E. Zhai, and X. Jin.
ServeGen: Workload Characterization and Generation
of Large Language Model Serving in Production. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2505.09999, 2025.
[55] W. Xiao, S. Ren, Y . Li, Y . Zhang, P. Hou, Z. Li, Y . Feng,
W. Lin, and Y . Jia. AntMan: Dynamic scaling on GPU
clusters for deep learning. In 14th USENIX Sympo-
sium on Operating Systems Design and Implementa-
tion (OSDI 20), pages 533–548. USENIX Association,
November 2020.
[56] J. Xu, R. Zhang, C. Guo, W. Hu, Z. Liu, F. Wu, Y . Feng,
S. Sun, C. Shao, Y . Guo, et al. vTensor: Flexible Virtual
Tensor Management for Efficient LLM Serving. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2407.15309, 2024.
[57] P. Yu and M. Chowdhury. Salus: Fine-grained gpu
sharing primitives for deep learning applications, 2019.
[58] ZeroMQ. ZeroMQ Website. https://zeromq.org/,
2025. Accessed: May, 2025.
[59] D. Zhang, H. Wang, Y . Liu, X. Wei, Y . Shan, R. Chen,
and H. Chen. Fast and Live Model Auto Scaling with
O (1) Host Caching. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.17246,
2024.
[60] S. Zhang, Q. Chen, W. Cui, H. Zhao, C. Xue, Z. Zheng,
W. Lin, and M. Guo. Improving GPU Sharing Perfor-
mance through Adaptive Bubbleless Spatial-Temporal
Sharing. In Proceedings of the Twentieth European Con-
ference on Computer Systems, pages 573–588, 2025.
[61] Y . Zhang, H. Yu, C. Han, C. Wang, B. Lu, Y . Li, Z. Jiang,
Y . Li, X. Chu, and H. Li. SGDRC: Software-Defined
Dynamic Resource Control for Concurrent DNN In-
ference on NVIDIA GPUs. In Proceedings of the
30th ACM SIGPLAN Annual Symposium on Principles
and Practice of Parallel Programming, pages 267–281,
2025.
[62] W. Zhao, A. Jayarajan, and G. Pekhimenko. Tally:
Non-intrusive performance isolation for concurrent deep
learning workloads. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM
International Conference on Architectural Support for
Programming Languages and Operating Systems, Vol-
ume 1, ASPLOS ’25, page 1052–1068, New York, NY ,
USA, 2025. Association for Computing Machinery.
[63] Y . Zhao, X. Liu, S. Liu, X. Li, Y . Zhu, G. Huang, X. Liu,
and X. Jin. Muxflow: Efficient and safe gpu sharing in
large-scale production deep learning clusters, 2023.
[64] L. Zheng, L. Yin, Z. Xie, J. Huang, C. Sun, C. H. Yu,
S. Cao, C. Kozyrakis, I. Stoica, J. E. Gonzalez, C. Bar-
rett, and Y . Sheng. SGLang: Efficient Execution of
Structured Language Model Programs, 2023.
[65] Y . Zhong, S. Liu, J. Chen, J. Hu, Y . Zhu, X. Liu, X. Jin,
and H. Zhang. DistServe: Disaggregating prefill and
decoding for goodput-optimized large language model
serving. In 18th USENIX Symposium on Operating
Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI 24), pages
193–210, 2024.
USENIX Association 20th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation    91
(a) Bursty-group shifts.
 (b) Request rate correlation.
Figure 12: Request patten shifts.
A Appendix
A.1 Analysis of All production traces
Overview. To understand the workload of multi-LLM serv-
ing, we analyze four production traces in detail. These traces
are collected from representative service providers as sum-
marized in Table 1. The first two traces are from Hyper-
bolic [19] and Novita AI [3], two popular LLM inference
service providers. They offer inference APIs for a variety of
foundation models and also support user-deployed, fine-tuned
models. The last two traces are from Chatbot Arena [9],
a widely used open-source platform for LLM evaluation.
It compares model responses via human preference voting
(Arena-Battle) and also provides interfaces for real-time con-
versations with various models (Arena-Chat).
Bursty-group behaviors. The bursty groups in the produc-
tion traces shift rapidly over time, and this behavior can be
quantified through model switches. As shown in Figure 12a,
we plot the number of model switches per hour for each trace.
To compute this metric, we treat a model as active if it has
received at least one request in the past two minutes. A model
switch is counted whenever the set of active models changes.
Across the four traces, Novita exhibits the fewest switches,
yet still averages 54 switches per hour, meaning the active
set changes almost once per minute. In contrast, Arena-Chat,
which contains the largest and most diverse collection of
models, experiences an average of 766 switches per hour,
reflecting that its active set changes every few seconds.
Unpredictability. The request rate at a given time is also
highly unpredictable in our traces. Figure 12b quantifies
predictability by measuring, for each model, the Pearson cor-
relation between its request-rate time series on consecutive
days. Across all traces, the correlations cluster near zero,
showing that a model’s traffic at a given time of day provides
virtually no information about its traffic at the same time on
the next day.
Volatile requests. Figure 13a further shows that models fre-
quently alternate between activity and idleness: many models
in the Hyperbolic and Novita traces experience more than
40–100 idle intervals per hour (>10 s each), making static
reservations wasteful. Complementing this, Figure 13b re-
ports the coefficient of variation (CV), calculated as the stan-
dard deviation divided by the mean ( σ/µ), of requests per
minute for each model. Both Hyperbolic and Novita traces
(a) Number of idle intervals per
hour.
(b) CV of request rate per
minute.
Figure 13: V olatile requests.
contain many models with CV > 1. The Chatbot Arena traces
have lower request rates, resulting in smaller CVs overall,
but many models still exhibit CVs greater than 0.5. Together,
the high frequency of idle intervals and the substantial vari-
ability captured by CV indicate that all traces exhibit strong,
persistent volatility.
A.2 Analysis of Algorithm 1
A.2.1 KVPR Bound Analysis
The global model placement algorithm ensures that the maxi-
mum KV pressure ratio (KVPR) across all GPUs is bounded
by the maximum KVPR in the optimal placement. We give
the following analysis.
Let KV PROPT be the minimum possible maximum KVPR
achievable by any optimal placement. Let KV PRmax be the
maximum KVPR produced by Algorithm 1. We want to show
KV PRmax is bounded by KV PROPT .
Bottleneck Analysis: Focus on the GPU, denoted as gmax,
that achieves the highest KVPR (KV PRmax) given by Algo-
rithm 1’s placement. Let mk be the last model assigned to
this GPU gmax. Let Wbe f ore and Sbe f ore represent the total
SLO-weighted request rate and shared KV memory on gmax
just before model mk was assigned. The final state on this
GPU is KV PRmax = (Wbe f ore+ dk)/(Sbe f ore− wk), where dk
is the SLO-weighted request rate (rk/sk) and wk is the mem-
ory weight of model mk. Similar to Graham [15], this proof
aims to demonstrate that both the state before mk was added
and the contribution of mk are bounded relative to KV PROPT .
Specifically, it seeks to establish two conceptual bounds:
• Bound 1 (Related to state before mk): The KVPR on
gmax just before mk’s assignment, Wbe f ore
Sbe f ore
, was the mini-
mum among all GPUs at that moment due to the algo-
rithm’s greedy choice. This minimum KVPR is typi-
cally related to the average “pressure” across the system,
which, in turn, is argued to be no larger than the opti-
mal maximum pressure. This suggests the inequality:
Wbe f ore/Sbe f ore≤ KV PROPT
• Bound 2 (Related to modelmk): The “pressure” exerted
by the critical model mk must be handled by the optimal
1000 L.. 
0.06 
~ 
:, 125 Arena-Battle 3 
~ cc 0 Arena-Battle .c Arena-Chat 0 750 0 
~ 100 Arena-Chat :,: 
I 
~ 0.04 Hyperbolic 
~ ~ 
I ' 
0 Novita 2 Hyperbolic 
] 
500 0 0.02 .... 75 Novita 
1 
u " > 
.i:l 250 ci, 0.00 
• 
50 u 
-~ ~ "' 1 V, 
~ C: 25 0 -0.02 2 
Novita Hyper. A.-Battle A.-Chat Novita Hyper. A.-Battle A.-Chat C: 
i 0 0 
0.0 0.5 1.0 0.0 0.5 1.0 
Model percentage Models percentage 
92    20th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation USENIX Association
Figure 14: Mean latency comparison.
solution. A fundamental lower bound on the optimal so-
lution is the maximum pressure any single model would
exert if placed alone on an otherwise empty GPU, i.e.,
KV PROPT≥ dk/(C− wk).
The final step involves integrating these insights to bound
KV PRmax = Wbe f ore+dk
Sbe f ore−wk
. Following Graham’s proof [15],
we substitute these into the numerator and get KV PRmax≤
KV PROPT· (1 + C
Sgmax−wk
).
A.2.2 TP Support
The model placement algorithm in Algorithm 1 seamlessly
integrates models utilizing Tensor Parallelism (TP). We con-
ceptualize a TP model requiring t p_size GPUs as being com-
posed of t p_size distinct parts. For scheduling purposes, we
create t p_sizeentries in the sorted model list for such a model,
assigning each entry 1
t p_size of the original weight and request
rate. A beneficial property emerges from this decomposition:
since these entries have identical rk
sk
values, they remain ad-
jacent after sorting. This adjacency increases the likelihood
that, as the algorithm iterates, these parts are initially assigned
to different GPUs due to rising KVPRs. To ensure the distri-
bution, if assigning a TP part to the GPU with the minimum
KVPR would result in collocating it with another part of the
same original model, we instead assign it to the GPU exhibit-
ing the second-lowest KVPR. Through this decomposition
strategy and modified assignment rule, our algorithm effec-
tively considers and manages the placement of TP models
alongside single-GPU models.
A.3 Elastic Memory Overhead
To stress-test the worst case, we evaluate the system under
a constant request rate without idle periods, eliminating op-
portunities for memory coordination through either time- or
space-sharing. In this setting, static partitioning provides
the strongest baseline, as it divides memory according to
the steady request rate. Figure 14 presents a comparison be-
tween our system and static partitioning when serving two
Llama-3.2-3B models on a single A100-40G GPU. In this ex-
periment, the global scheduler does not alter placements and
the GPU-local scheduler does not reorder requests, since all
requests have equal priority. The only additional cost arises
from the elastic memory manager, which dynamically maps
Figure 15: Sensitivity to hyperparameters.
and unmaps pages, unlike static partitioning that relies on
pre-allocation. With optimizations such as buffer prealloca-
tion and contiguous layouts, this overhead remains modest:
mean TTFT and TPOT increase by only 3–5% as request rates
scale, demonstrating the efficiency of our system even under
worst-case conditions.
A.4 Sensitivity Analysis
We analyze the sensitivity of Prism to two key hyperparame-
ters: the model eviction idle threshold and the load monitoring
window size with Hyperbolic and Chatbot Arena traces. The
results are shown in Figure 15.
Idle Eviction Threshold. Figure 15(a) reports the mean
TTFT as we vary the idle threshold, which dictates how long a
model must remain inactive before being evicted. The results
reveal a clear convex trade-off. When the threshold is too
short (e.g., < 40 s), the system becomes overly aggressive,
evicting models during short inter-arrival gaps. This leads to
instability and thrashing, where the system must frequently
pay the high penalty of model reactivation for subsequent re-
quests, thereby inflating TTFT. Conversely, when the thresh-
old is too long (e.g., > 80s), idle models hoard GPU memory
that could otherwise be harvested. This resource locking
prevents the scheduler from placing new active models or
expanding the KV cache for concurrent requests, resulting
in resource starvation and increased queuing delays. Empiri-
cally, a threshold of approximately 45 seconds achieves the
optimal balance between minimizing reactivation overhead
and maximizing resource reclamation.
Load Monitoring Window Size. Figure 15(b) examines the
impact of the sliding window size used to calculate the moving
average of token rates for the KVPR. This parameter controls
the sensitivity of the placement algorithm: a small window
makes the scheduler sensitive to transient bursts, while a large
window focuses on long-term trends. The results demonstrate
that Prism is generally robust to variations in window size.
We observe that a window size of approximately 60 seconds
provides a stable estimation of memory pressure, effectively
smoothing out short-term noise while remaining responsive
enough to shift resources during sustained workload changes.
~ ~ 
~ 30 
I-
~ 20 
I-
C 
co 10 
-
5-Partition QJ 
::;: 
-
Ours 
O 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32 0 
4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32 
Request Rate (req/s) Request Rate (req/s) 
(a) (b) 
500 
1400 
t 300 
~ 200 
"' ~ 100 
0 
20 
,.._Arena 
-+ Hyper 
40 60 80 100 120 
Idle Threshold (s) 
(a) 
500 ,-------------, 
1400 
t 300 
~ 200 
"' ~ 100 
...._ Arena 
♦ Hyper 
~ 0 +..:-'--,-~~.-:'-~--"'-,--~ 
0 25 50 75 
Window Size (s) 
(b) 
100 125 
USENIX Association 20th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation    93